Analyze4D
=========

### fMRI visualization and time course analysis tool

 

What is Analyze4D?
------------------

Analyze4D is a comprehensive tool for advanced region of interest/time course
analysis of functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) data. This Matlab based
tool is open source and is completely GUI based, so no experience of any
programming language, whatsoever, is needed to use it.

 

Analyze4D has a plethora of tools to help you select regions of interest and
analyze the time series of voxels inside these regions of interest. Coupled with
its ability to read virtually any neuroimaging data format, Analyze4D enables
anyone involved with fMRI to use this tool for analyzing their data at any stage
in their analysis.

 

Why Use Analyze4D?
------------------

Analyzing voxel time courses can be a very effective tool in gaining better
understanding of how the brain is responding to a particular experimental
manipulation. By analyzing voxel time course behavior, you can verify if the
stimulus is eliciting the right activity patterns in the brain. This can be done
very early on in the experimental design process. Most of the times, researchers
do many pilot experiments before going on to a full blown experiment. And
sometimes, carrying out a full blown statistical parametric analysis might be
too much of a hassle for each of these pilots. Sometimes you would just wish
that you had a tool through which you could view any voxel in action and just
visually verify if the experimental manipulation had the desired effect. Well,
that’s where Analyze4D comes into the picture.

 

Using Analyze4D early on in your experiment, you can better tweak your design
and be sure that there are no surprises waiting for you when you do a full blown
statistical analysis, once you have collected data from all your
subjects.Although most existing neuroimaging analysis softwares can do very
sophisticated statistical measures on your fMRI data, but when it comes to just
visualizing the raw voxel time course, these softwares leave much to be to
desired. Analyze4D can read almost any data format and is therefore, meant to
complement any of the existing neuroimaging softwares that you might be using
for fMRI data analysis. So whether you are using SPM, FSL, BrainVoyager or AFNI,
you can start using Analyze4D to give your analysis a fourth dimension, the
dimension of time.

 

System Requirements
-------------------

Any operating system (Windows, Linux, MAC but we tested it only on Windows so
far.)

-   Matlab R2010a or higher with image processing toolbox. Can run on lower
    versions as well but we have not tested it

-   SPM8 (only required when using AAL masking)

-   1GB RAM minimum (4GB recommended)

-   2.4GHz processor minimum (Multi-core recommended when working in mosaic
    movie mode)

-   200MB diskspace

-   A tonne of patience

 

Installation Instructions
-------------------------

1.    Unzip the package.

2.    Open MATLAB.

3.    Open install.m in the analyze4d folder

4.    Run the install.m file

5.    The software is now installed

6.    Type ‘analyze4d’ without the quotes in the command window to open the
Analyze4d software.

 

How to load data
----------------

1.  To load data go to File menu and then click ‘Import Data’

2.  Pick the data type and file format.

3.  A file picker window will now appear which allows you pick any number of
    files that you want to you display. Once you are done selecting the file,
    click ‘Done’.

4.  Analyze4D will now display the data. You can now select ROIs on the
    displayed data and get the time-course plots.

 

Visit http://analyze4d.com for more information about this software.

 

Disclaimer: The software is being provided as is, and we don’t guarantee the
correctness of its output. The software is currently an orphan-ware, so use it
at your own peril.

 

###  
